docs: Adding Best practices for Deploying and Running Langflow in production (#7311)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Deployment/deployment-prod-best-practices.md

---

> title: Langflow architecture and best practices

Reviewer: This page appears to be about Langflow's architecture and best practices _specifically on Kubernetes_, so I'm concerned that this page title is too generic. People doing general searches for "langflow best practices" and "langflow best practices" might be confused when they click on this page title in Google and only find Kubernetes content.

```suggestion
title: Langflow architecture and best practices on Kubernetes
```

Langflow can be deployed on cloud deployments like **AWS EKS, Google GKE, or Azure AKS**. For more information about deploying Langflow on AWS EKS, Google GKE, or Azure AKS, see the [Langflow Helm Charts repository](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow-helm-charts).

## Langflow deployment

A typical Langflow deployment includes:

* **Langflow API & UI** – The Langflow service is the core component of the Langflow platform. It provides a RESTful API for executing flows.
* **Kubernetes Cluster** – The Kubernetes cluster provides a platform for deploying and managing the Langflow service and its supporting components.
* **Persistent Storage** – Persistent storage is used to store the Langflow service's data, such as models and training data.
* **Ingress Controller** – The ingress controller provides a single entry point for traffic to the Langflow service.
* **Load Balancer** – Balances traffic across multiple Langflow replicas.
* **Vector Database** – If using Langflow for RAG, Vector DB (e.g., Astra DB) can be integrated.

![Langflow Reference Architecture on Kubernetes](/img/langflow-reference-architecture.png)

## Environment isolation

> It is recommended to deploy and run two separate environments for Langflow, with one environment reserved for Development use and another for Production use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended to deploy and run two separate environments for Langflow, with one environment reserved for development use and another for production use.
```

> ![Langflow Environments](/img/langflow-env.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Langflow environments](/img/langflow-env.png)
```

> * **The Langflow Development environment** must include the Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for full experience of Langflow, optimized for prototyping and testing new flows.
> * **The Langflow Production environment** executes the flow logic in production and productionizes Langflow flows as standalone services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **The Langflow development environment** must include the Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for the full experience of Langflow, optimized for prototyping and testing new flows.
* **The Langflow production environment** executes the flow logic in production and enables Langflow flows as standalone services.
```

## Why is it important to have separate deployments?

This separation is designed to enhance security, optimize resource allocation, and streamline management.

* **Security**
  * **Isolation**: By separating the development and production environments, you can better isolate different phases of the application lifecycle. This isolation minimizes the risk of development-related issues impacting the production environments.

>   * **Access Control**: Different security policies and access controls can be applied to each environment. Developers may require broader access in the IDE for testing and debugging, while the runtime environment can be locked down with stricter security measures.
>   * **Reduced Attack Surface**: The runtime environment is configured to only include essential components, reducing the attack surface and potential vulnerabilities.
> * **Resource Allocation**
>   * **Optimized Resource Usage and cost efficiency**: By separating the two environments, you can allocate resources more effectively. Each flow can be deployed independently, providing fine-grained resource control.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * **Access control**: Different security policies and access controls can be applied to each environment. Developers may require broader access in the IDE for testing and debugging, while the runtime environment can be locked down with stricter security measures.
  * **Reduced attack surface**: The runtime environment is configured to include only essential components, reducing the attack surface and potential vulnerabilities.
* **Resource allocation**
  * **Optimized resource usage and cost efficiency**: By separating the two environments, you can allocate resources more effectively. Each flow can be deployed independently, providing fine-grained resource control.
```

Langflow can be deployed on cloud deployments like **AWS EKS, Google GKE, or Azure AKS**. For more information about deploying Langflow on AWS EKS, Google GKE, or Azure AKS, see the [Langflow Helm Charts repository](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow-helm-charts).

## Langflow deployment

A typical Langflow deployment includes:

* **Langflow API & UI** – The Langflow service is the core component of the Langflow platform. It provides a RESTful API for executing flows.
* **Kubernetes Cluster** – The Kubernetes cluster provides a platform for deploying and managing the Langflow service and its supporting components.
* **Persistent Storage** – Persistent storage is used to store the Langflow service's data, such as models and training data.
* **Ingress Controller** – The ingress controller provides a single entry point for traffic to the Langflow service.
* **Load Balancer** – Balances traffic across multiple Langflow replicas.
* **Vector Database** – If using Langflow for RAG, Vector DB (e.g., Astra DB) can be integrated.

![Langflow Reference Architecture on Kubernetes](/img/langflow-reference-architecture.png)

## Environment isolation

> It is recommended to deploy and run two separate environments for Langflow.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is recommended to deploy and run two separate environments for Langflow, with one environment reserved for Development use and another for Production use.
```

> One environment to be reserved for Development use and another for Production use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

![Langflow Environments](/img/langflow-env.png)

* **The Langflow Development environment** must include the Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for full experience of Langflow, optimized for prototyping and testing new flows.
* **The Langflow Production environment** executes the flow logic in production and productionizes Langflow flows as standalone services.

## Why is it important to have separate deployments?

> This separation is designed to enhance security, optimize resource allocation, and streamline management. Understanding the rationale behind these deployment options help you make informed decisions about how to best deploy and manage your applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This separation is designed to enhance security, optimize resource allocation, and streamline management.
```

* **Security**
  * **Isolation**: By separating the development and production environments, you can better isolate different phases of the application lifecycle. This isolation minimizes the risk of development-related issues impacting the production environments.
  * **Access Control**: Different security policies and access controls can be applied to each environment. Developers may require broader access in the IDE for testing and debugging, while the runtime environment can be locked down with stricter security measures.
  * **Reduced Attack Surface**: The runtime environment is configured to only include essential components, reducing the attack surface and potential vulnerabilities.
* **Resource Allocation**

>   * **Optimized Resource Usage and cost efficiency**: By separating the two, we can allocate resources more effectively. Additionally, each flow can be deployed independently, providing fine-grained resource control.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * **Optimized Resource Usage and cost efficiency**: By separating the two environments, you can allocate resources more effectively. Each flow can be deployed independently, providing fine-grained resource control.
```
